Using PreceptorTools in a nutshellVersion 1.0.5 2/2/2004Using PreceptorTools Courseware Builder is relatively straightforward even for users who know little about programming. Because it is built with Revolution software, it is helpful if you know a little about how to use Revolution. If you have not gone through the Revolution tutorial stacks yet it is strongly recommended that you do so.  In addition, it is recommended that you take the Intro to Revolution and PreceptorTools tutorial built with the PreceptorTools. These stacks will teach you the fundamental skills you need to know in order get up to speed with both Revolution and PreceptorTools.Getting startedPreceptorTools Courseware Builder consists of three Revolution stacks.  The first is used to create the framework for the lesson you are building. The second stack is a Revolution plug-in. The last stack is a data file called "pTData.rev". All of these stacks must be present in the right locations for PreceptorTools to work properly.
Here's how to install and launch your software.1. Place the file "revPTPalette.rev" in the Revolution plugins folder located in the Revolution Program folder.2. Place the "pTData.rev" stack and "PreceptorTools.rev" stack in the Revolution Program folder. Do not place them in a subfolder or directory of that folder.3. If you are using Revolution 2.0 simply double click on The PreceptorTools.rev file icon. If you are using Revolution 1.1.1 double click on the Revolution application icon to startup your Revolution software then double Click the the PreceptorTools icon.  If Revolution is already in memory quit the application and relaunch it so that the plugin loads.4. Click once on the Module tab.
5. Click the Learning Module icon in the scrolling group.5. Type a name for the lesson in the space provided and click the "Make a Learning Module" button.6. Read the License and Warranty Disclaimer.  If you agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the License click the "I Agree" button. PreceptorTools makes a copy of a lesson module stack, names it, opens it and displays the PreceptorTools palette.You are now ready to start building your new lesson.  The process of building a lesson involves four principle tasks; Making an outline, adding text to the Lesson Information fields on the main menu screen, making links to content screens and adding content to the content screens you have linked.1. Make an outline (using a text editor, word processor or the PtrecptorTools "Notes" palette.)a. Background: Making an outline for your lesson is a good idea. It allows you to think about the major points of your lesson, your learning objectives and gives you a chance to assemble all the pictures movies and other information you want to include. Doing this first not only saves you some time, it will also help you to keep your project on task. b. Use any text editor to make your outline. PreceptorTools doesn't have this capability.c. Use the major points of your outline as the names for your content screens.d. Consider using the outline to specify the other assets you wish to include on each content screen.2. Adding Text to the lesson information fieldsa. Background: The information displayed by these buttons is intended for your learner's use. Modify it in any way you see fit.  You may make changes to these text fields at any time.b. Go to the main menu screen by clicking the "Begin" button on the Learning Module title screen.c. Click once on the "Instructions" button and modify the text in any way you desire. Click on all the other information buttons and modify their information as well."Building a Learning Module"1.  Create a new learning module using the PreceptorTools stack.2. Go to the "Main Menu" screen of the PreceptorTools (tm) Learning Module by clicking once on the "Begin" button.  Type the requested information in the fields associated with the five action buttons located in the blue column to the left of the screen.3. Make the links to up to 25 content screens using the following procedure:a. Click a screen icon in the Navigation map. Numbered icons should be activated in numerical order.b. You will see a dialog that asks  you to type a name for the screen ( 25 characters or less). Type a namec. Click "OK".  You will be sent to the linked screen.d. Add content to the screen or reopen the Navigation Map and make more screen links.4. Go to each content screen (card) and add text, graphics, movies or special learning objects using the wrench button.5. You can add an exam to your module. First make a link to the exam card by activating its link in the menu map (as described above) and then use the plug-in to make an examination for your module.6. Prepare your stack for use.  You have two choices:  You can run it in Presentation mode or as a to standalone application. If you wish to place it in presentation mode simply click the presentation mode button of the PreceptorTools palette.If you wish to make your stack a standalone application select the "Prep for Standalone" button of the PreceptorTools palette. This button configures your learning module so it is ready to become a standalone. Use Revolution to make your module into a standalone application.Main Menu Action ButtonsThere are five action buttons on the Main Menu card.  Each of these buttons displays a hidden field of information. As the developer, it is your responsibility to add information to each of these fields. Each field has some boilerplate text that probably should accompany any lesson.  You need to supply additional text that is specifically related to your lesson. Places in the fields that require your input are bracketed by <<  >>. The boilerplate information and the suggestions are provided for your convenience. Change any or all of the text as it suits your needs.  Each of the fields is listed below with some explanatory text.Introduction: This field informs the learner about the contents of the lesson, why the information is important to learn, how long it will take to go through the material and what will be learned.Requirements:  This field informs the learner about information required to get the most out of the lesson. For example, the learner may need to possess certain physical skills, like using a mouse or typing.  There may also be knowledge related requirements like other lessons that prepare the learner for the current lesson.  Finally, there may be terms with which the learner needs to be familiar.  All that type of information should be placed in the Requirements field.Instructions: This field informs the learner about the method of using the stack.  The developer is required to add some specific directions.  When you have finished adding your information, be sure to lock the field, as the red text is clickable.  When clicked, these words highlight interface objects that the student will use frequently in the process of taking the lesson. Lock and unlock these fields using the lock and unlock buttons located on the PreceptorTools palette.Objectives: All the learning objectives and outcomes for the lesson should be specifically listed in this field. The Objectives field contains examples of how you might want to proceed. Try to be as specific as possible.  Keep these objectives and outcomes in mind as you make the lesson.Resources: This field is used to list the resources you used to create the lesson.  You may also use this to store links to online sources of information that might be useful to your learners. Using the Navigation Map When you first open a new learning module go to the main menu screen. Now click the Navigation Map button in the title bar. The Navigation map is shown. This map is the location of all the module's navigation buttons. Using this map you can link and unlink content screens and navigate to every screen in your stack.The Navigation Map has two areas of interest: 1) The Title bar and 2) the Link/Navigation button array.The Navigation Map title bar:The link - navigation button arrayThis area occupies the central region of the Navigation map and has two principal functions: 1) Linking and unlinking content screens and 2) providing a means of navigation from any content card to any other content card in the Learning Module stack. Creating a link to a content screen"There are 29 content screens in a learning module. Every lesson should contain at least one linked content screen.  You don't have to use them all. Use the procedure below to activate a link to a content screen.a. Click a dimmed screen icon in the Navigation map. The red selection marquee should be located around the screen's border. Note: numbered icons should be activated in numerical order.b. If you have clicked a numbered screen you will see a dialog that asks you to name the screen. Type a name for the screen: 25 characters or less and click "OK". You will be sent to the linked content card.  At this point you can either add content to the card or create links to other cards. Unnumbered screens (Assignment, Exam etc.) are assigned names automatically.Important:   Activate numbered content screen navigation link buttons from left to right in numerical order.  If you decide to start in the left corner and go down or skip a button you will have problems with the navigation order of your stack.Severing a link to a content screen"Sometimes in the process of developing a lesson you may wish to sever the link between a content screen and its navigation button. The procedure for doing this is straightforward.a. Hold down the shift key on your keyboard and click the active navigation button of your choice.b. A dialog box will appear asking if you really want to sever the link to the content screen.  Click "OK".The link to the content screen is severed.  Note: The content screen is still a part of the stack; it is just unassigned and will not be visible or accessible by users. You may reestablish the link using the linking procedure above at any time. IMPORTANT: Do not delete content cards under any circumstances.  If you don't want users to know about the unassigned cards in the stack hide the inactive navigation buttons on the navigation map. Do this by clicking the "Hide Unassigned Navigation Buttons" button of the PreceptorTools palette.Navigating to a linked content screenYou navigate to any linked content screen by clicking its active navigation button once.  Active navigation links are recognized by their brightly colored buttons.  Inactive links are dimmed.    The PreceptorTools paletteThe PreceptorTools Palette has several buttons that provide information or additional functions useful in the development process. It is shown automatically when ever you open a PreceptorTools learning or generic module with a licensed copy of Revolution software. This palette is the portal to a host of development tools you will use to speed up your project development.The PreceptorTools Palette iconWhen the Learning Module stack is in the Editing mode ( all Revolution Menus, palettes and PreceptorTools palettes available ) there is a palette icon located to the left of the Navigation Map button.  This button is used to invoke the PreceptorTools palette in the case where it has been inadvertently dismissed by the user.  Clicking this button shows the PreceptorTools palette.  When you create a standalone from the Learning module this button is hidden.When the user presses the Presentation mode button in the PreceptorTools palette, the PreceptorTools Palette button's icon is changed to the "Presentation" button. This indicates that the stack in in the "Presentation mode. Clicking this button allows the user to exit the PreceptorTools Presentation mode.  Because you might want to run the stack unattended in this mode, exiting is gated by a password dialog.  The password is the default password "start" unless you have changed it.      Showing the PreceptorTools palette" The PreceptorTools palette is shown every time you launch a Learning or Generic Module stack. If you dismiss the palette during a development session you may show it at any time by using one of the following procedures:1.  Clicking the PreceptorTools "palette" icon in the navigation bar just to the left of the Navigation Map button will display the PreceptorTools palette.or2.  Go to the Revolution "Development" menu and following these steps:1. Choose the Plugins menu item2. Now choose the "revPTPalette.rev" plugin.  The PreceptorTools palette will appear.Hiding the PreceptorTools paletteThe simplest way to hide the course builder palette is to click its close box once. The close box is the little square in the upper left hand corner of the palette window. The "Prepare for Standalone" and "Presentation Mode" buttons will also hide the PreceptorTools palette as a part of their function.    PreceptorTools Palette buttonsThe PreceptorTools Palette has 14 buttons. All of them but two have development related functions. The "About PreceptorTools " and "Help" buttons provide you with useful information.  The PreceptorTools palette only functions as designed with Learning and Generic Module Stacks created by PreceptorTools.Browse buttonThis button places the top stack in the browse mode.  It has exactly the same function as the browse button on the Revolution tools palette. It is replicated here to save you time.Pointer button This button places the top stack in the editing mode.  It has exactly the same function as the pointer button on the Revolution tools palette. It is replicated here to save you time.PreceptorTools Object toolkits button - "Wrench" This button shows the PreceptorTools Object toolkits palette.  This palette contains several "toolkits" which in turn contain pre-built objects. Some of these are designed to assist you in the general development of your stack.  Others are pre-built "Learning Objects" that you customize and paste into your learning module. Each toolkit comes with its own extensive help facility.The PreceptorTools Object toolkits palette will only allow you to build these objects in Learning or Generic Module stacks created by the PreceptorTools Stack.    Show Password - FlashlightOn occasion you may need to check a module stack's password. Clicking the Flashlight button shows the stack's current password in the message box. The default password for all learning module stacks is "start".  You need to have a password to unlock stacks that have been locked using the "presentation mode" button.Note: Using this password to lock your Learning module is not the same as locking a stack using the Revolution password command. You can use this password to secure your stack in circumstances where you expect people without Revolution programming experience to be using it. This method is not recommended if you plan to use the stack to generate grades.  In that circumstance creating a standalone application using the Revolution Distribution Builder is the wisest course.Change Password - KeysOn occasion you may need to change a modules password. Clicking the "Keys" button presents you with a dialog box that prompts you to provide a new password for your stack.Prepare For StandaloneIf you wish to make your stack into a standalone application you will want to secure it.  When you click this button, you lock all of the fields in the stack and you hide all the unassigned content screen buttons. This button cleans up your stack for you and prepares it to be made into a standalone. Before you quit Revolution save the stack. Quit and re-launch your licensed Revolution software.  Now go to the Revolution "File" menu and choose the "Build Distribution..." menu item.  Use the Distribution Builder to make your standalone.    Presentation ModeOn occasion you may wish to run your stack in the presentation mode. Lets say that you wanted to use the lesson you built as an instructional aid in the classroom. Placing it in the presentaion mode hides all the Revolution User interface elements and places your lesson on a Black background. The Stack works like a standalone but in fact has Revolution operating in the background. Only users who know the password can return to the Revolution editing mode.Note: When you use this button the stack is not actually locked.  What happens is that all the fields in the stack are locked and the Revolution User interface is temprarily suspended. Without the UI you can't edit the stack's objects. When you type in the stack's password the User Interface is launched again and you can edit the stack.To unlock a stack secured this way use this procedure.1.  Click the "Menu Tools" button located to the left of the Navigation Map button of the Learning Module2.  Type the password and click OK.  The default password is "start".Show all content screensWhen you click this button ALL of the navigation map's navigation buttons are shown. You will want to show the buttons to create links to the 25 numbered content screens in the module. Four other buttons are also made visible: Assignment, Exam, Online Exam, and Feedback.  These buttons are used to link the Navigation Map to the screens of the Assignment, Exam, Online Exam, and Feedback screens."Hide unassigned content screens"  buttonWhen you click this button ALL of the navigation map's unlinked navigation buttons are hidden.  You probably won't use all of the 25 available content cards in this stack.  Using this button allows you to hide the unassigned link buttons from your users.You will want to use this button before you distribute your Learning Module"Lock all fields on screen" buttonThis button will lock ALL the fields on a card.  Normally you would be required to reset the lockText property of any field in its properties window.  Every field that was locked would require this. The field lock button locks every field on a screen at once."Unlock all fields on screen" buttonThis button will unlock ALL the fields on the current Learning module screen.  Normally, to unlock a field, you would be required to reset its lockText property in the (properties) Inspector.  Every field that was locked would require this. The field unlock button unlocks every field on the current card of the top stack (any top stack). "Lock all fields in stack" buttonThe PreceptorTools development cycle involves, among other things, locking and unlocking fields.  You will do this over and over.  It is hard to remember which fields you have locked and which you haven't.  Obviously, you will want your stack's information to be secured, i.e. not editable by end-users, before you distribute it. Going through every screen in your stack and locking every field in every group is very time consuming. This button will lock every single field (there could be hundreds ) in your stack with just a click. This saves you a lot of time.    "About PreceptorTools" buttonWhen clicked, this button shows a field that contains important information about the PreceptorTools application.  In this field you will find contact information, release notes, a history of the application's various builds and license and warranty in formation. Click its controlling button to show the information. To close the field either click the close button in its title bar or click the highlighted "About PreceptorTools " button again."Help" buttonThis button shows a field that contains basic help regarding the PreceptorTools application. Click its controlling button to show the field. Click the "Help Index" button for a list of PreceptorTools related help files. Select a menuItem to display the associated information. To close the "Help" field either click the close button in its title bar or click the highlighted "Help" button again.    Working with Content Screens The content card is the place where all the information in your lesson resides. At a minimum each screen should have information in its main point and a practice fields. Use Wrench button to add learning objects to test your student's knowledge of the screen's main point. Testing for the retention of information learned on previous screens is also a good idea.    The General MethodGo to a content card then go to the PreceptorTools palette and click the unlock fields button to unlock all the fields on the content card.1.   Click the Main Point button to display the "Main Point" field. Type the main point information in the main point field.  Be sure that the main point of the card matches one of the lesson objectives in your outline.2. Click the Practice button to display the "Practice" field. Type the practice information in the practice field.  Note that the practice field comes with a field lock button. This button allows the student to lock and unlock the field and to edit the information it contains. This field can be used for all manner of practice related to the main point. For example, lets say that you want the student to memorize the acronym "On Old Olympus Towering Top A Finn And German Viewed A Hop" as an aid to remembering the name of the 12 cranial nerves. You could have the student type the acronym 10 times, then speak it aloud 10 times.  In short, use the practice field to engage the student in some learning process related to the main point of the content screen.3.   Add more Action Objects: movies, pictures, or quizzes that provide the learner with more information about the main point of the card or that allow the learner to test his or her understanding of the main point.4.   Consider adding Action Objects that test the student's understanding of content presented on previous cards.Use the general method described above on all content screens.  This is just one method of using this software.  There are many other possible ways it might be employed. Remember PreceptorTools is built on top of one of the world's best software development environments.  As you become more familiar with Revolution you may decide to make custom learning objects of your own.  We expect that you will discover instructional applications for this software that we haven't considered.The Assignment Screen Ideally every lesson should have an assignment.  The assignment card is the place where you present the learner with exercises, quizzes or essays that further test their knowledge of the information presented in the lesson. Assignments can be used several ways. 1) Use an assignment to allow the student to test his or her understanding of the whole lesson.  2) If you are using this module as an aid to instruction in the classroom design your assignment as a group activity.  3) Use the assignment to front-end load information for higher order learning activities that will take place in the classroom.The Exam ScreenThe exam screen is a part of the PreceptorTools learning module that can be modified by the addition of one or more examObjects. The examObject toolkit in this version of the PreceptorTools only contains one examObject, the criterion-referenced examObject. Additional examObjects are planned for release in the future.The Online Exam ScreenThe Online Exam card is a part of the PreceptorTools Learning Module that allows the learner to connect to an online exam for credit. This object toolkit is not available in this version of the PreceptorTools.The Feedback ScreenThe Feedback card is a part of the PreceptorTools learning module which can be modified by the addition of a PreceptorTools feedback Object. Feedback Objects are used to create and present surveys that gather information regarding the content of lessons. Getting feedback about the lessons you create is important when you evaluate the curriculum you design. In addition, feedback from the users can provide you with specific information about what was good and not so good about your lesson. This object toolkit is not available in this version of the PreceptorTools but is high on the development priority list.(c) Messimer Computing Inc. 2003